hey there welcome to this video we're
going to be walking through an advanced
way to do Google ads competitor analysis
by doing manual keyword classification
so if you want to understand uh what is
your Google ads competitor keyword
strategy and ultimately what is their
budget allocation now there is no
definite way to know for 100% certainty
how much they're investing on any one
keyword but this strategy will give you
a good understanding on what is their
keyword allocation mixup look like so
where are they focusing their efforts
and then from there you can make some
assumptions on well if the majority of
their keywords fall into these different
classifications then it's likely that
they're investing this much budget into
those classifications so this is an
advanced way of doing Google ads
competitor analysis that isn't often
talked about uh does require some manual
upfront work but can be very worthwhile
if you're really trying to make a big
impact with your Google ad campaigns
from the start so I'm going to be using
udemy for the sake of example here and
in order to do this classification you
do need to have a paid tool some sort of
keyword research tool like sem rush or
spyfu or any other one but you need a
tool that allows you to see the keywords
that your competitor is bidding on with
ads so these have to be paid keywords so
I'm going to use udemy here for the sake
of example and I went ahead and looked
up udemy on sem rush and what I'm going
to do is I'm going to export the
keywords for you to me that they're
actually running ads against so once you
export that list you're going to get a
CSV file like this and what I recommend
that you do is that you filter based on
on the last scene column and you filter
by the most recent month so in my case
filming this video in May it's May so
I'm filtering by my most recent month
and the reason why I recommend you do
this is because it's automatically going
to just remove a lot of irrelevant
inactive keywords and we only want to be
seeing active keywords as this manual
classification can take some time so
once we've done that the next thing
we're going to do is we're going to add
in a new column a custom column and
we're going to call it theme and this is
going to be representative of the
campaign theme now what we're going to
do is we're going to manually classify
each one of these different keywords
leveraging the filtering options in
Excel to classify each keyword based on
the campaign theme that it falls under
in my experience managing Google ad
campaigns there's five primary campaign
themes that 99% of all Google ad
campaigns fall under the first one is
non-brand this is bidding on keywords
that have high intent nature and do not
involve your brand name the second one
is branded campaigns brand campaigns are
bidding on your actual brand name the
Third one is competitive campaigns these
are bidding on keywords that represent
your competitor's names the fourth one
is rlsa campaigns this is remarketing
list for search ads these are really
hard to classify so that is a downside
of this approach is you're going to
struggle classifying RSA campaigns
because rlsa campaign is bidding on a
high- intent non-brand keyword that also
happens to leverage an audience and it's
hard to understand that just from this
approach so that is limitation and then
finally fifth is content so bidding on
informational keywords that are educ
educational Focus so how to what is uh
things like this so those are the five
classifications and we're going to go
ahead now and manually classify each one
of these keywords based on those
different classifications so I'm going
to go ahead and pause this video run
this classification and then I'll come
back to you with the next step all right
so I went ahead and classified all of my
different keywords by theme and just uh
some quick tips on how to do it is
number one search for your competitor's
name to be able to find brand
classification uh number two search for
Relevant competitors to be able to find
competitive
classification and uh number three the
difference would be the non-brand
keyword so that's a a way to think about
leveraging the filters here and then
searching for so in my case I did udemy
and then I was able to classify all of
it as brand and and so on and so forth
just to make it much easier for you uh
you could also take this export and put
it into chat GPT and then say chat GPT
based on these parameters do the
classification for me uh so you could
try that as well just know it's not
always perfect so you have those two
options at your disposal so once you
have the classification done what we're
going to do is we're going to actually
go ahead and put this into a pivot table
and now we're going to get a pretty good
sense of what our competitor's strategy
looks like so I'm going to put theme
here and keyword and I'm going to move
theme to the rows keywords to the values
I'm going to just update my label here
to theme and uh we're going to sort by
largest to smallest list so let's go
ahead and remove blanks so blanks were
irrelevant keywords so when you're going
through the classification to you could
also filter It Down based on keywords
that are relevant to your business that
you actually find yourself where you
have overlap and you'd want to bid on uh
you could do that as well and you could
get even more granular like you could do
non-brand uh like for example you to me
they had a lot of certification keywords
I could have done non-brand
certification non-brand courses
non-brand classes whatever you think is
going to be helpful in terms of those
insights of how you can then uh leverage
this to your advantage
so I'm going to go here just put a quick
percentage formula just so I can
understand what does the makeup look
like in terms of their
allocation and just doing a really quick
view here I can see 87% of their
keywords fall under n non-brand 9% brand
4% content and very little of it is
competitive I only found six that was
like related to corsera but they don't
do a lot so me as a potential competitor
of to me I can already get a really good
sense now of their keyword strategy so
now I can make some assumptions well if
they're doing
87% of their budget on non-brand
keywords or I should say let me rephrase
that if 87% of their keywords are
non-brand then it's pretty good to
assume that the majority of their budget
is going towards non-brand keywords and
then the second one is brand and the
third one is competitive so if I want to
like Pablo Picasa says uh steal
inspiration I can take this and then I
can say you know what let's start off
with non-brand our self and then you can
dive into it a little bit further as
well if you want to do even further
analysis so for example I can now come
in here and then under non-brand I can
try to understand is there a pattern of
keywords that fall under this non-brand
bucket there was a lot of like junk and
irrelevant keyword so if I was really
doing this for real I would clean it up
and delete the irrelevant keywords that
don't match my business so then this can
become even more actionable so for
example with within non brand uh maybe
for you to me of this what is it
87%
maybe 45% of them are course related
keywords and then another 20% are class
related keywords and then another 15%
are certification related keywords and I
can start to kind of unpack and
understand what it is that my competitor
is doing in terms of their keyword
strategy and ultimately from there make
some inferences on how they're actually
investing their budget in dollars I hope
this video was helpful and if you have
any questions feel free to drop them in
the comments below and I'll see you in
the next one